The former treaties have I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus began both to do and teach, until the day in which he was taken up, after that he, through the Holy Ghost, had given commandments unto the apostles whom he had chosen, to whom also he showed himself alive after his passion by many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days, and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God.
And, being assembled together with them, commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father, which, saith he, ye have heard of me. For John truly baptized with water, but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost not many days hence.
When they, therefore, were come together, they asked of him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel? And he said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father hath put in his own power, but ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you.
And ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth.
And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he was taken up, and a cloud received him out of their sight. And while they looked steadfastly toward heaven as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel, which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven?
The same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven.
Then returned they unto Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is from Jerusalem a Sabbath-day's journey. And when they were come in, they went up into an upper room, where abode both Peter and James and John and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon's Elotes, and Judas the brother of James.
These all continued, with one accord in prayer and supplication, with the women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with his brethren. And in those days Peter stood up in the midst of the disciples, and said, The number of names together were about 120.
Men and brethren, this scripture must needs have been fulfilled, which the Holy Ghost by the mouth of David spake before concerning Judas, which was guide to them that took Jesus. For he was numbered with us, and had obtained part of this ministry.
Now this man purchased a field with the reward of iniquity, and falling headlong, he burst asunder in the midst, and all his bowels gushed out.
And it was known unto all the dwellers of Jerusalem insomuch as that field is called in their proper tongue a Keldema, that is to say the field of blood. For it is written in the book of Psalms, Let his habitation be desolate, And let no man dwell therein, And his bishopric let another take.
Wherefore of these men, which have accompanied with us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, beginning from the baptism of John, unto the same day that he was taken up from us, must one be ordained to be a witness with us of his resurrection.
And they appointed to Joseph called Barsabbas, who was surname Justus, and Mathias. And they prayed and said, Thou Lord, which knowest the hearts of all men, show whether of these two thou hast chosen, that he may take part of this ministry and apostleship, from which Judas by transgression fell, that he might go to his own place.
And they gave forth their lots, and the lot fell upon Mathias, and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.
And when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with one accord in one place. And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting.
And there appeared unto them cloven tongues like as a fire, and it sat upon each of them. And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance.
And there were dwelling at Jerusalem Jews, devout men, out of every nation under heaven. Now when this was noised abroad, the multitude came together and were confounded, because that every man heard them speak in his own language.
And they were all amazed and marvelled, saying one to another, Behold, are not all these which speak Galileans? And how hear we every man in our own tongue, wherein we were born?
Parthians and Medes and Elamites, and the dwellers in Mesopotamia, and in Judea and Cappadocia and Pontius, and Asia, Phrygia and Pamphylia, in Egypt, and in the parts of Libya about Cyrene, and strangers of Rome, Jews and proselytes, Cretes and Arabians, we do hear them speak in our tongues, the wonderful works of God.
And they were all amazed, and were in doubt, saying one to another, What meaneth this?
Others mocking said, These men are full of new wine.
But Peter, standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice, and said unto them, Ye men of Judea, and all ye that dwell at Jerusalem, be this known unto you and hearken to my words.
For these are not drunken, as ye suppose, seeing it is but the third hour of the day.
But this is that which was spoken by the prophet Joel.
And it shall come to pass, In the last days saith God, I will pour out of my spirit upon all flesh.
And your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, And your young men shall see visions, And your old men shall dream dreams.
And on my servants, and on my handmaidens, I will pour out in those days of my spirit, And they shall prophesy.
And I will show wonders in heaven above, And signs in the earth beneath, Blood and fire and vapor of smoke.
The sun shall be turned into darkness, And the moon into blood, Before the great and notable day of the Lord come.
And it shall come to pass, That whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved.
Ye men of Israel, hear these words.
Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved of God among you by miracles and wonders and signs,
which God did by him in the midst of you, as ye yourselves also know.
Him, being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, ye have taken,
and by wicked hands have crucified and slain, whom God hath raised up.
Having loosed the pains of death, because it was not possible that he should beholden of it.
For David speaketh concerning him. I foresaw the Lord always before my face,
for he is on my right hand that I should not be moved.
Therefore did my heart rejoice, and my tongue was glad.
Moreover, also my flesh shall rest in hope.
Because thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to seek corruption.
Thou hast made known to me the ways of life. Thou shalt make me full of joy with thy countenance.
Men and brethren, let me freely speak unto you of the patriarch David,
that he is both dead and buried, and his supplicer is with us unto this day.
Therefore, being a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him,
that of the fruit of his loins according to the flesh he would raise up Christ to sit on his throne,
he, seeing this before, spake of the resurrection of Christ,
that his soul was not left in hell, neither his flesh did seek corruption.
This Jesus hath God raised up, whereof we all are witnesses.
Therefore, being by the right hand of God exalted, and having received of the Father the promise of the Holy Ghost,
he hath shed forth this, which ye now see and hear.
For David is not ascended into the heavens, but he saith himself,
The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, until I make thy foes thy footstool.
Therefore, let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God hath made the same Jesus,
whom ye have crucified, both Lord and Christ.
Now when they heard this, they were pricked in their heart, and said unto Peter,
and to the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do?
Then Peter said unto them, Repent, and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ,
for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost.
For the promise is unto you, and to your children, and to all that are afar off, even as many as the Lord our God shall call.
And with many other words did he testify, and exhort, saying,
Save yourselves from this untoward generation.
Then they that gladly received his word were baptized, and the same day there were added unto them about three thousand souls.
And they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine, and fellowship, and in breaking of bread, and in prayers.
And fear came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were done by the apostles.
And all that believed were together, and had all things common, and sold their possessions and goods, and parted them to all men, as every man had need.
And they, continuing daily with one accord in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart, praising God, and having favor with all the people.
And the Lord added to the church daily, such as should be saved.
Now Peter and John went up together into the temple at the hour of prayer, being the ninth hour.
And a certain lame man from his mother's womb was carried, whom they laid daily at the gate of the temple, which is called Beautiful, to ask alms of them that entered into the temple.
Who, seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple, asked in alms.
And Peter, fastening his eyes upon him with John, said, Look on us.
And he gave heed unto them, expecting to receive something of them.
Then Peter said, Silver and gold have I none.
But such as I have, give I thee.
In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk.
And he took him by the right hand, and lifted him up, and immediately his feet and ankle bones received strength.
And he, leaping up, stood and walked, and entered with them into the temple, walking and leaping and praising God.
And all the people saw him, walking and praising God.
And they knew that it was he which sat for alms at the beautiful gate of the temple.
And they were filled with wonder and amazement at that which had happened unto him.
And as the lame man which was healed held Peter and John, all the people ran together unto them in the porch that is called Solomon's.
Greatly wondering.
And when Peter saw it, he answered unto the people, Ye men of Israel, why marvel ye at this?
Why look ye so earnestly on us, as though by our own power or holiness we had made this man to walk?
The God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Jacob, the God of our fathers, hath glorified his son Jesus, whom ye delivered up,
and denied him in the presence of Pilate, when he was determined to let him go.
But ye denied the Holy One, and the Just, and desired a murderer to be granted unto you,
and killed the Prince of Life, whom God hath raised from the dead, whereof we are witnesses.
And his name, through faith in his name, hath made this man strong, whom ye see and know,
yea, the faith which is by him hath given him this perfect soundness in the presence of you all.
And now, brethren, I want that through ignorance ye did it, as did also your rulers.
But those things which God before had shewed by the mouth of all his prophets, that Christ should suffer, he hath so fulfilled.
Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out,
when the times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord, and he shall send Jesus Christ,
which before was preached unto you, whom the heaven must receive until the times of restitution of all things,
which God hath spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets since the world began.
For Moses truly said unto the fathers, A prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you of your brethren like unto me,
him shall ye hear in all things whatsoever he shall say unto you.
And it shall come to pass that every soul which will not hear that prophet shall be destroyed from among the people,
yea, and all the prophets from Samuel and those that follow after, as many as have spoken, have likewise foretold of these days.
Ye are the children of the prophets, and of the covenant which God made with our fathers,
saying unto Abraham, And in thy seed shall all the kindreds of the earth be blessed.
Unto you first, God, having raised up his son Jesus, sent him to bless you, and turning away every one of you from his iniquities.
4.
And as they spake unto the people, the priests, and the captain of the temple, and the Sadducees
came upon them, being grieved that they taught the people, and preached through Jesus the
resurrection from the dead.
And they laid hands on them, and put them in hold unto the next day, for it was now
even tide.
Howbeit many of them which heard the word believed, and the number of the men was about
five thousand.
And it came to pass on the morrow, that their rulers, and elders, and scribes, and Annas
the high priest, and Caiaphas, and John, and Alexander, and as many as were of the kindred
of the high priest, were gathered together at Jerusalem.
And when they had set them in the midst, they asked, By what power, or by what name have
ye done this?
Then Peter, filled with the Holy Ghost, said unto them, Ye rulers of the people, and elders
of Israel, If we this day be examined of the good deed done to the impotent man, by what
means he is made whole, be it known unto you all, and to all the people of Israel, that
by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead,
even by him doth this man stand here before you whole.
This is the stone, which was set at naught of you builders, which is become the head
of the corner, neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name
under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved.
Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were unlearned
and ignorant men, they marveled.
And they took knowledge of them, that they had been with Jesus, and beholding the man
which was healed standing with them, they could say nothing against it.
But when they had commanded them to go aside out of the council, they conferred among
themselves, saying, What shall we do to these men?
For that indeed a notable miracle hath been done by them is manifest to all them that
dwell in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it.
But that it spread no further among the people, let us straightly threaten them, that they
speak henceforth to no man in this name.
And they called them, and commanded them not to speak at all nor teach in the name of Jesus.
But Peter and John answered and said unto them, Whether it be right in the sight of
God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye.
For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard.
So when they had further threatened them, they let them go, finding nothing how they
might punish them, because of the people.
For all men glorified God for that which was done.
For the man was above forty years old, on whom this miracle of healing was shewed, and
being let go, they went to their own company, and reported all that the chief priests and
elders had said unto them.
And when they heard that, they lifted up their voice to God, with one accord, and said,
Lord, thou art God, which hast made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and all that in them
is, who by the mouth of thy servant David hast said, Why did the heathen rage?
And the people imagined vain things.
The kings of the earth stood up, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord, and
against his Christ.
For of a truth against thy holy child Jesus, whom thou hast anointed, both Herod and Pontius
Pilate with the Gentiles and the people of Israel were gathered together, for to do whatsoever
thy hand and thy counsel determined before to be done.
And now, Lord, behold their threatenings, and grant unto thy servants, that with all
boldness they may speak thy word, by stretching forth thine hand to heal, and that signs and
wonders may be done by the name of thy holy child Jesus.
And when they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together, and they
were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spake the word of God with boldness.
And the multitude of them that believed were of one heart and of one soul, neither said
any of them that ought of the things which he possessed was his own, but they had all
common, and with great power gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus,
and great grace was upon them all.
Neither was there any among them that lacked, for as many as were possessors of lands or
houses sold them, and brought the prices of the things that were sold, and laid them down
at the apostles' feet, and distribution was made unto every man according as he had need.
And Joses, who by the apostles was surnamed Barnabas, which is being interpreted the son
of Consolation, a Levite, and of the country of Cyprus, having land, sold it, and brought
the money, and laid it at the apostles' feet.
But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira
his wife, sold a possession, and kept back part of the price, his wife also being privy
to it, and brought a certain part, and laid it at the apostles' feet.
But Peter said, Ananias, why hath Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost, and
to keep back part of the price of the land?
Whilst it remained, was it not thine own?
And after it was sold, was it not in thine own power?
Why hast thou conceived this thing in thine heart?
Thou hast not lied unto men, but unto God.
And Ananias, hearing these words, fell down, and gave up the Ghost, and great fear came
on all them that heard these things.
And the young men arose, wound him up, and carried him out, and buried him.
And it was about the space of three hours after, when his wife, not knowing what was
done, came in, and Peter answered unto her, Tell me, whether ye sold the land for so much?
And she said, Yea, for so much.
Then Peter said unto her, How is it that ye have agreed together to tempt the Spirit of
the Lord?
Behold, the feet of them which have buried thy husband are at the door, and shall carry
thee out.
Then fell she down, straightway at his feet, and yielded up the Ghost.
And the young men came in, and found her dead, and carrying her forth, buried her by her
husband.
And great fear came upon all the church, and upon as many as heard these things.
And by the hands of the apostles were many signs and wonders wrought among the people.
And they were all with one accord in Solomon's porch.
And of the rest there's no man joined himself to them, but the people magnified them.
And believers were the more added to the Lord multitudes both of men and women, insomuch
that they brought forth the sick into the streets, and laid them on beds and couches,
that at the least the shadow of Peter passing by might overshadow some of them.
There came also a multitude out of the cities round about unto Jerusalem, bringing sick
and them which were vexed with unclean spirits.
And they were healed every one.
Then the high priest rose up, and all they that were with him, which is the sect of the
Sadducees, and were filled with indignation, and laid their hands on the apostles, and
put them in the common prison.
But the angel of the Lord by night opened the prison doors, and brought them forth,
and said, Go, stand and speak in the temple to the people all the words of this life.
And when they heard that, they entered into the temple early in the morning, and taught.
But the high priest came, and they that were with him, and called the council together,
and all the senate of the children of Israel, and sent to the prison to have them brought.
But when the officers came, and found them not in the prison, they returned and told,
saying, The prison truly found we shut, with all safety, and the keepers standing without
before the doors.
But when we had opened, we found no man within.
Now when the high priest and the captain of the temple, and the chief priests heard these
things, they doubted of them whereunto this would grow.
Then came one, and told them, saying, Behold, the men whom ye put in prison, are standing
in the temple, and teaching the people.
Then went the captain with the officers, and brought them without violence, for they feared
the people, lest they should have been stoned.
And when they had brought them, they set them before the council, and the high priest asked
them, saying, Did not we straightly command you that ye should not teach in this name?
And behold, ye have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine, and intend to bring this man's
blood upon us.
Then Peter and the other apostles answered, and said, We ought to obey God rather than
men.
The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom ye slew, and hanged on a tree.
Him hath God exalted with his right hand, to be a prince and a savior, for to give repentance
to Israel, and forgiveness of sins.
And we are his witnesses of these things, and so is also the Holy Ghost, whom God hath
given to them that obey him.
When they heard that, they were cut to the heart, and took counsel to slay them.
Then stood thereup one in the council, a Pharisee named Gamaliel, a doctor of the law, had in
reputation among all the people, and commanded to put the apostles forth a little space,
and said unto them, Ye men of Israel, take heed to yourselves what ye intend to do as
touching these men.
For before these days rose up Theodos, boasting himself to be somebody, to whom a number of
men about four hundred joined themselves, who was slain, and all as many as obeyed him
were scattered and brought to naught.
After this man rose up Judas of Galilee, in the days of the taxing, and drew away much
people after him.
He also perished, and all, even as many as obeyed him, were dispersed.
And now I say unto you, Refrain from these men, and let them alone.
For if this council, or this work be of men, it will come to naught.
But if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it, lest happily ye be found even to fight against
God.
And to him they agreed, and when they had called the apostles, and beaten them, they
demanded that they should not speak in the name of Jesus, and let them go.
And they departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted
worthy to suffer shame for his name.
And daily in the temple, and in every house, they ceased not to teach and preach Jesus
Christ.
And in those days, when the number of the
disciples was multiplied, there arose a murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews, because
their widows were neglected in the daily ministration.
Then the twelve called the multitude of the disciples unto them, and said, It is not reason
that we should leave the word of God and serve tables.
Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you, seven men of honest report, full of the Holy
Ghost and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business.
But we will give ourselves continually to prayer, and to the ministry of the word.
And the saying pleased the whole multitude, and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith,
and of the Holy Ghost, and Philip, and Prochorus, and Nicanor, and Tymon, and Parmenes, and
Nicholas, a proselyte of Antioch, whom they set before the apostles.
And when they had prayed, they laid their hands on them.
And the word of God increased, and the number of the disciples multiplied in Jerusalem greatly.
And a great company of the priests were obedient to the faith.
And Stephen, full of faith and power, did great wonders and miracles among the people.
Then there arose certain of the synagogue, which is called the synagogue of the libertines,
and Cyrenians and Alexandrians, and of them of Cilicia and of Asia, disputing with Stephen.
And they were not able to resist the wisdom and the spirit by which he spake.
Then they suborned men, which said, We have heard him speak blasphemous words against
Moses and against God.
And they stirred up the people, and the elders, and the scribes, and came upon him, and caught
him, and brought him to the council, and set up false witnesses, which said, This man ceaseth
not to speak blasphemous words against this holy place and the law.
For we have heard him say that this Jesus of Nazareth shall destroy this place, and
shall change the customs which Moses delivered us.
And all that sat in the council, looking steadfastly on him, saw his face as it had been the face
of an angel.
Then said the High Priest, Are these things so?
And he said, Men, brethren, and fathers, hearken!
The God of glory appeared unto our father Abraham when he was in Mesopotamia, before
he dwelt in Charon, and said unto him, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred,
and come into the land which I shall show thee.
Then came he out of the land of the Chaldeans, and dwelt in Charon, and from thence, when
his father was dead, he removed him into this land wherein ye now dwell.
And he gave him none inheritance in it, no, not so much as to set his foot on, yet he
would give it to him for a possession, and to his seed after him, when as yet he had
no child.
And God spake on this wise, that his seed should sojourn in a strange land, and that
they should bring them into bondage and entreat them evil four hundred years.
And the nation to whom they shall be in bondage will I judge, said God, and after that shall
they come forth and serve me in this place.
And he gave him the covenant of circumcision, and so Abraham begat Isaac and circumcised
him the eighth day, and Isaac begat Jacob, and Jacob begat the twelve patriarchs.
And the patriarchs, moved with envy, sold Joseph into Egypt, but God was with him and
delivered him out of all his afflictions, and gave him favor and wisdom in the sight
of Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and he made him governor over Egypt and all his house.
Now there came a dearth over all the land of Egypt and Chanan, and great affliction,
and our fathers found no sustenance.
But when Jacob heard that there was corn in Egypt, he sent out our fathers first, and
at the second time Joseph was made known to his brethren, and Joseph's kindred was made
known unto Pharaoh.
Then sent Joseph, and called his father Jacob to him, and all his kindred, three score and
fifteen souls.
So Jacob went down into Egypt, and died, he and our fathers, and were carried over to
Secum, and laid in the sepulcher that Abraham bought for a sum of money of the sons of Amor,
the father of Secum.
But when the time of the promise drew nigh, which God had sworn to Abraham, the people
grew and multiplied in Egypt, till another king arose which knew not Joseph.
The same dealt subtly with our kindred, and evil entreated our fathers, so that they cast
out their young children, to the end they might not live.
In which time Moses was born, and was exceeding fair, and nourished up in his father's house
three months.
And when he was cast out, Pharaoh's daughter took him up, and nourished him for her own
son.
And Moses was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and was mighty in words and
in deeds.
And when he was full forty years old, it came into his heart to visit his brethren the children
of Israel.
And seeing one of them suffer wrong, he defended him, and avenged him that was oppressed and
smote the Egyptian, for he supposed his brethren would have understood how that God by his
hand would deliver them, but they understood not.
And the next day he showed himself unto them as they strove, and would have set them at
one again, saying,
"'Sirs ye our brethren, why do ye wrong one to another?'
But he that did his neighbor wrong thrust him away, saying,
"'Who made thee a ruler and a judge over us?
Wilt thou kill me as thou didst the Egyptian yesterday?'
Then fled Moses at this saying, and was a stranger in the land of Median, where he beget
two sons.
And when forty years were expired, there appeared to him in the wilderness of Mount Sinai an
angel of the Lord in a flame of fire in a bush.
When Moses saw it, he wondered at the sight, and as he drew near to behold it, the voice
of the Lord came unto him, saying,
"'I am the God of thy fathers, the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God
of Jacob.'
Then Moses trembled, and durst not behold.
Then said the Lord to him,
"'Put off thy shoes from thy feet, for the place where thou standest is holy ground.
I have seen, I have seen the affliction of my people, which is in Egypt, and I have heard
their groaning, and am come down to deliver them.
And now come, I will send thee into Egypt.'
This Moses whom they refused, saying,
Who made thee a ruler and a judge?
The same did God send to be a ruler and a deliverer by the hand of the angel which appeared
to him in the bush.
He brought them out, after that he had showed wonders and signs in the land of Egypt, and
in the Red Sea, and in the wilderness forty years.
This is that Moses which said unto the children of Israel,
"'A prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you, of your brethren, like unto me,
him shall ye hear.'
This is he that was in the church in the wilderness with the angel which spake to him in the
Mount Sinai, and with our fathers, who received the lively oracles to give unto us, to whom
our fathers would not obey but thrust him from them, and in their hearts turned back
again into Egypt, saying unto Aaron, Make us gods to go before us, for as for this Moses
which brought us out of the land of Egypt, we want not what has become of him.'
And they made a calf in those days, and offered sacrifice unto the idol, and rejoiced in the
works of their own hands.
Then God turned and gave them up to worship the host of heaven, as it is written in the
Book of the Prophets, O ye house of Israel, have ye offered to me slain beasts and sacrifices
by the space of forty years in the wilderness?
Yea, ye took up the tabernacle of Moloch, and the star of your God Remphan, figures
which ye made to worship them.
And I will carry you away beyond Babylon.
Our fathers had the tabernacle of witness in the wilderness, as he had appointed, speaking
unto Moses, that he should make it according to the fashion that he had seen, which also
our fathers, that came after, brought in with Jesus into the possession of the Gentiles,
whom God drove out before the face of our fathers, unto the days of David, who found
favor before God, and desired to find a tabernacle for the God of Jacob.
But Solomon built him in house.
Howbeit the Most High dwelleth not in temples made with hands, as saith the prophet, Heaven
is my throne, and earth is my footstool.
What house will ye build me, saith the Lord, or what is the place of my rest?
Hath not my hand made all these things?
Ye stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, ye do always resist the Holy Ghost,
as your fathers did, so do ye.
Which of the prophets have not your fathers persecuted, and they have slain them which
showed before of the coming of the Just One, of whom ye have been now the betrayers and
murderers, who have received the law by the disposition of angels, and have not kept it?
When they heard these things, they were cut to the heart, and they gnashed on him with
their teeth.
But he, being full of the Holy Ghost, looked up steadfastly into heaven, and saw the glory
of God, and Jesus standing on the right hand of God, and said, Behold, I see the heavens
opened, and the Son of Man standing on the right hand of God.
Then they cried out with a loud voice, and stopped their ears, and ran upon him with
one accord, and cast him out of the city, and stoned him, and the witnesses laid down
their clothes at a young man's feet, whose name was Saul.
And they stoned Stephen, calling upon God, and saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit.
And he kneeled down, and cried with a loud voice, Lord, lay not this sin to their charge.
And when he had said this, he fell asleep.
And Saul was consenting unto his death, and at that time there was a great persecution
against the church which was at Jerusalem, and they were all scattered abroad throughout
the regions of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles.
And devout men carried Stephen to his burial, and made great lamentation over him.
As for Saul, he made havoc of the church, entering into every house, and howling men
and women committed them to prison.
Therefore, they that were scattered abroad went everywhere preaching the word.
Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria, and preached Christ unto them.
And the people, with one accord, gave heed unto those things which Philip spake, hearing
and seeing the miracles which he did.
For unclean spirits, crying with loud voice, came out of many that were possessed with
them, and many taken with palsies, and that were lame, were healed.
And there was great joy in that city.
But there was a certain man, called Simon, which before time in the same city used sorcery,
and bewitched the people of Samaria, giving out that himself was some great one, to whom
they all gave heed, from the least to the greatest, saying, This man is the great power
of God.
And to him they had regard, because that of long time he had bewitched them with sorceries.
But when they believed Philip, preaching the things concerning the kingdom of God, and
the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized both men and women.
Then Simon himself believed also.
And when he was baptized, he continued with Philip, and wondered, beholding the miracles
and signs which were done.
Now when the apostles which were at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of
God, they sent unto them Peter and John, who, when they were come down, prayed for them,
that they might receive the Holy Ghost, for as yet he was fallen upon none of them, only
they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.
Then laid they their hands on them, and they received the Holy Ghost.
And when Simon saw that through laying on of the apostles hands the Holy Ghost was given,
he offered them money, saying, Give me also this power, that on whomsoever I lay hands,
he may receive the Holy Ghost.
But Peter said unto him, Thy money perish with thee, because thou hast thought that
the gift of God may be purchased with money.
Thou hast neither part nor lot in this matter, for thy heart is not right in the sight of
God.
Repent therefore of this thy wickedness, and pray God if perhaps the thought of thine heart
may be forgiven thee, for I perceive that thou art in the gall of bitterness and in
the bond of iniquity.
Then answered Simon and said, Pray ye to the Lord for me, that none of these things which
ye have spoken come upon me.
And they, when they had testified and preached the word of the Lord, returned to Jerusalem
and preached the gospel in many villages of the Samaritans.
And the angel of the Lord spake unto Philip, saying, Arise and go toward the south unto
the way that goeth down from Jerusalem unto Gaza, which is desert.
And he arose and went.
And behold, a man of Ethiopia, and eunuch of great authority under Candace, queen of
the Ethiopians, who had the charge of all her treasure and had come to Jerusalem for
to worship, was returning and sitting in his chariot read Isaias the prophet.
Then the spirit said unto Philip, Go near and join thyself to this chariot.
And Philip ran thither to him and heard him read the prophet Isaias, and said, Understandest
thou what thou readest?
And he said, How can I except some man should guide me?
And he desired Philip that he would come up and sit with him.
The place of the scripture which he read was this, He was led as a sheep to the slaughter,
and like a lamb done before his shearer, so opened he not his mouth.
In his humiliation his judgment was taken away, and who shall declare his generation,
for his life is taken from the earth.
And the eunuch answered Philip, and said, I pray thee, of whom speaketh the prophet this,
of himself or of some other man?
Then Philip opened his mouth, and began at the same scripture, and preached unto him Jesus.
And as they went on their way, they came unto a certain water.
And the eunuch said, See, here is water, what doth hinder me to be baptized?
And Philip said, If thou believest with all thine heart, thou mayest.
And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.
And he commanded the chariot to stand still, and they went down both into the water,
both Philip and the eunuch, and he baptized him.
And when they were come up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught away Philip,
that the eunuch saw him no more, and he went on his way rejoicing.
But Philip was found at Azotes, and passing through,
he preached in all the cities, till he came to Caesarea.